---
layout: post
title: A Musicbox for my Livingroom
---

Okay this should be on first thought more a howto, but it ended up as a somewhat a review on different music system that I had tested.
It is not really round up, but I really wanted to write a blog post and ended up with this.
It took a little bit of time to get round to write a blog post anyway, but now I'm on it. 
- enough muttering.

Some weeks ago I started searching for a solution to stream music to a device in the livingroom without being depended on my smartphone. 
I wanted to control the device also with my desktop pc or other smartphones. 
So everyone connected to the same network can push some songs into the queue or choose a radio to listen to. 
I already had something similar but didn't used it all the time. 
For the musicbox I wanted to use my [raspberrypi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/).
So my search resulted in three different music systems, Pi MusicBox, Volumio and RuneAudio.

### Pi MusicBox

[Pi MusicBox](http://www.pimusicbox.com/) was my first try because I liked it the most and has the ability to connect a subsonic-server to it.
Beside that it can stream music from spotify, google music or other services if you have a paid account on them.

My first impression of pimusicbox was really great.
I played a little bit around with it and was able to play some music.
But some things didn't worked out so great for me.
I wasn't able to get the subsonic-plugin to work.
The system always crashed.
This was frustrating because I choosed pimusicbox because of this feature.
Another bad example is loading a big music collection.
It takes hours to complete if you call some GB of music your own.
When it finished, I found it a bit complicated to find a specific song or radio station.
It took to much clicks and on a smartphone it was even more frustrating.

I also tested spotify and googlemusic which resulted in very similar reactions, not only for pimusicbox but the other music systems too.
You can't really search for specific songs or if you can it's no fun to do so.
You can better play the songs form the native apps of the music services.

It also lacks an own forum which would be really helpfull to reach people with problems alike.
Anyway it's an interesting music system which I would give another try later on.

### Volumio

The next music system I tried was [Volumio](https://volumio.org/).
Volumio is not bad, but it is similar to RuneAudio.
They somewhat split into different pathes from one project named RaspFi.

So when I played around with Volumio I found the UI a way more interesting than the ui from pimusicbox.
First thing I tried was to play a radio station, but I failed.
So I tried to play another station and failed again.
The problem was: I heard nothing.
I didn't get the sound working, only rustle or nothing.

I stopped wasting time on working out how to fix this and headed over to the very similar but more interesting RuneAudio.

### RuneAudio

[RuneAudio](http://www.runeaudio.com/) is my personal winner.
As I stated, it is really similar to Volumio but it is working.
It is not perfect, but I can get to play music without many issues.
At the time of writing I can't reach it.. at that point I have to restart the PI.
But this are little issues the other systems had too.

One big plus is the scanning of your music library. 
It also takes some time, but is way faster than pimusicbox.
What I like most is the way of presenting the musicfiles.
It is folder-based and that is how I have organized my collection.
Playing a radio station is as easy as playing a song.

I also tried spotify with RuneAudio but had similar problems described at pimusicbox.
So I dropped this and listen to my own collection or interesting radio stations.

Last thing I tried was to stream music to the box via dlnaa.
It kinda works, but sometimes the connections drops.
Moreover I would be dependent on my smartphone or other device which initiated the stream.

At the moment I'm waiting for a new version to come out!

### Conclusion

So with three different music systems, I found a great way to colour my livingroom with all my music and more using RuneAudio.
